# Log4jCustomComponents
A custom logger and appender.

## StatisticsAppender
### Environment 
Java 11

### How to Run
- Include StatisticsAppender,java file under your source folder, Because it has @Plugin Annotation on the class name, so Log4j can detect it.
- Specify the following:
- Name of the appender
- URL to the database
- Username to the database
- Password to the database
- Driver name 
<p>Example:
Statistics name="StatisticsMonitor" url="jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306/application_Logs" driver="com.mysql.cj.jdbc.Driver"  username="root" password="123456"
</p>
- Call logger.info() to insert relevant message to the database.
- If you want to specify a username to which message, please use [] to wrap it.
<p>
Example-
  <p>
// Normal cases
   </p>
   <p>
logger.info("This is a info message!!!");
  </p>
  <p>
// With username
  </p>
  <p>
logger.info("[Jack] login to the system!!!");
  </p>

### Dependency
-	JARs required (Maven takes care of adding these as long as the user specifies them in the dependency file.) 
-	Please see the included dependency file in this repository.

## CustomLogger
### Environment
This component was implemented and tested on the latest version of Java. It should be compatible with older versions.

### Dependencies
This component also makes use of Log4j’s JARs similar to StatisticsAppender. Please see the included dependency file in this repository for further details.

In addition, the CustomLogger initiates a function in LogAnalysisApplication. The LogAnalysisApplication component requires the use of Javafx to generate a pie chart. Thus, the user also needs to specify the depndency for Javafx.
The complete pom.xml file can be found in the root directory. 

### Using the CustomLogger
A user should perform the following steps assuming they have added the dependencies listed above:
-	Step 1: Create a folder named ‘datamerge-logs’ in the root directory. This will be the target/destination folder for the log file generated by an application.
-	Step 2: Create an object of type Logger like so:
<p>final Logger myLogger = LogManager.getLogger();</p>

-	Step 3: Next, create an object of type ‘CustomLogger’ and pass the Logger type object as a parameter to the constructor. It should be done as shown below:
<p>CustomLogger logger = new CustomLogger(wrapped);</p>
-	Step 4: At this point, the user is ready to use the logger they created. According to their application’s requirements, they may place logging statements. 
At the end of the application’s program, it is recommender the user uses the ‘runner’ method through the CustomLogger object to visualize their log statements.
